would you stand it is our tradition to
start our meetings with prayer and
through the years of my being on the
board I've never heard a criticism of
having prayer in a public institution we
did get a threat one year of uh some
people coming to protest but they didn't
show up but as I often say when I pray
out loud in public that you use this
time in a way to uh express your own
sense of faith and value yesterday it
was my privilege to uh conduct the
funeral celebration for a former member
of this board a former chair of this
board a lady whose life was demonstrated
in many
ways as a servant giving to others and
so my prayer today is a prayer of
Thanksgiving and uh join me please
father I do thank you for those who
serve those who have served this
institution those who serve
to keep our grounds and our facilities
maintained those who serve to keep the
operation of the school functioning
those who serve to teach those who serve
to to lead those who serve to make
decisions in administration and those
who serve on the board and others that
have preceded us at all those places
thank you for people who serve I give
thanks in Jesus name amen amen
please join me in honoring our nation's
flag I pledge allegiance to the flag of
the United States of America and to the
Republic for which it stands one nation
under God indivisible with liberty and
justice for all please follow me in
honoring the Texas flag honoring the
Texas flag I Texas one State under God
one indivisible
[Laughter]
we're supposed to sing
first first item of business on the
board is opportunity for members of the
public to speak to the board any
word for any member of the citizenry I
see none and hear none we move on to
item number three the Chancellor's
update
all right good afternoon everyone uh
we'll begin with an enrollment update Dr
Carrie
Rose good afternoon um I'm going to be
presenting the uh enrollment last month
Dr Garrett presented our census day
Texas enrollment and today I'm going to
present the worldwide and our Texas
enrollment um as you can see in your
board package it yes okay um you'll see
that for the course enrollment we're
starting to Trend up in 20125 our uh
worldwide course enrollment was
24,5 34 and then for Texas was
24,27 and then if you look at our head
count um you also see that we're
trending up there as well um our
worldwide was uh
8,980 and then our Texas was
8861 are there any
questions questions anyone thank you all
right thank
you okay the Army 250th birthday during
the uh last month's lunch in you heard
General Admiral speak about that so I
just wanted to remind everyone that
event is uh June 13th Friday June 13th
uh they have limited tables and seatings
so if we if you plan to attend please
let us know so that we can uh purchase
the one or two tables that we may need
those tables range from $900 to
$1,200 depending on location so uh
please let us know as soon as possible
so that we can secure uh the tables for
you por is it going to be held the clean
Civic and Conference
Center uh legislative update so at the
federal level the reauthorization of the
workforce opportunity and Innovation Act
is currently in progress it was actually
in a bill uh this past December uh there
was a bill to continue to extend Fundy
through fiscal year 2025 and it's a
bipartisan piece of leg legislation but
for whatever reason it was removed so um
both sides of the aisle have picked it
up again everyone's in agreement that we
need to pass it what's uh what's in
what's critical about this uh particular
piece of legislation is that it codifies
the strengthening Community College
training grants program which allows uh
which provides funding opportunities for
community colleges to modernize training
programs and to upskill adult and
dislocated workers so we we continue to
follow that also on the federal um level
the Contin the current continuing
resolution as you know is expired to is
set to expire on March 14th and so while
we've not received a formal notification
there is a message that was put out on
Army ignited for the service members
which basically says that if a
continuing resolution or budget is not
passed that the the current ta that was
approved with an effective date of uh
March 15th and later those those ta
requests will be cancelled so hopefully
um we'll get we'll get something
accomplished there in Washington so that
that doesn't
happen uh on the state level so the
Community College sector uh the
priorities for this legislative session
include a supplemental Appropriations
bill in the amount of $89 million to
fund the community colleges for the
current BM the one that we're in because
community colleges have exceeded the
expectations of HBA the outcomes uh
Associated there with and so there is a
proposal from the Coordinating Board to
uh uh allocate additional funds for the
the current BM which ends in
August we're also so uh another priority
is the obviously the full fully funding
the outcomes based funding model through
the general corporations act and I
previously mentioned to you that Senate
bill one and House Bill one uh look very
similar at this time and and prayerfully
will it will remain that way but um
that's another priority of of the
community colleges and the what's been
what's been appropriated proposed anyway
is in alignment with what the
Coordinating Board asked so if it is
approved then we will have the funding
that we believe we
need um and then of course and I
mentioned this piece of legislation a
couple of months ago but it is a
priority for us and that's to include
independent and private universities and
the transfer performance tier of
hb8 um several tax bills relevant in
Miss Briggs you jump in and help me at
any time several tax bills relevant to
community colleges were filed no real
activity as of yet but uh there's one
that was filed where whereby any
election for a tax rate greater than the
voter approval rate to be approved has
to be approved by 60% of the voters um
then there's another one that requires
2third majority on elections to issue
bonds or increased taxes and there are
several others but at this time no
activity so the last day of file bills
is this Friday March 14th um all
committee assignments have been made so
after the 14th we'll we'll pay much
closer attention uh more so than we've
already V if that's possible Miss Briggs
right um but just to to see what if any
of those bills gain traction and we'll
just continue to report back to
you and that concludes my update sir
thank you any board members have
questions
Chancellor next item is we're going to
hear about a large format flatbed
cutting
table good afternoon everybody my name
is Bobby waddle the instructor for the
graphics and printing Technology Program
under industrial technology uh before
you today uh for your consideration is
approval to purchase the colex sharp Cut
Pro cutting table uh using 2425 Carl
Perkins Grant funds uh using a state of
Texas uh purchasing Cooperative this
equipment will allow our students to be
able to fulfill the complete package of
sign manufacturing last year we were
able to purchase with Grant funds the
flatbed printer this year I'm requesting
to purchase the cutter that goes with it
so what it does is it allows the
students to operate equipment that'll
make them uh give them career
opportunities with $20 $25 an hour jobs
just starting uh operating these types
of equipment in the S manufacturing
field uh things they'll be able to uh
work with is cutting wood acrylic uh
aluminum large large 4x8 foot signage
not just small tabletop signage so it
expands their opportunities to see
better paying jobs um the the
manufacturing uh field is huge and sign
manufacturing is a part of that not just
the typical construction trades you know
sign manufacturing is is a big part of
that so that is my request for you today
you said this is for a grant yes What's
the total cost going to be it's 109,000
$610 that's for one year and parts later
yes Parts training accessories uh
service um and Freight we have estimate
on the out years uh for like parts and
maintenance and spies on that we
estimate uh as far as Parts is very
minimal the ink or not ink the blade
accessories a couple hundred dollars to
replace but we wouldn't have to replace
them every year here um and as far as
maintenance it's
$800 to get someone to come out and
maintenance the machine but that's if we
need the maintenance uh a lot of the
training will cover us to be able to
maintain the machine ourselves I'm
trying to wrap my head around a $100,000
table I'm sorry yeah so so the table it
just cuts giant 4 by8 foot sheets so
when you buy when we buy uh wholesale uh
material like wood aluminum and acrylic
it comes in sheets it doesn't come in
small because the way you know the
manufacturing business works we don't
they don't make the Small Things
automatically we have to cut everything
down ourselves no does it cut like
square corners or does it cut in uh like
a you need a rounded or it cut all
custom kinds of cuts we can make any
shape we want we can make the logo we
can make Corner Cuts round Cuts any cut
you want and that's what the students
get to learn is how to
design uh the correct uh measurements to
create these cuts and they're operating
the table to make the cuts precise into
the specs that the customer orders how
many students do you currently have in
the program we have 70 students
currently and usually every semester we
maintain that 70 student enrollment
count every
semester thank you very much thank you
Chancellor's travel
right okay the travel my travel schedule
was updated to include the uh fourth
quarter travel uh the standard uh teac
and Sac cooc but also I was recently
nominated and selected to attend the
army war college first week of June the
National Security seminar really excited
about that so I've added that as
well and the budget
all right so for the fiscal year 26
budget uh the Mr Barton sent out the
documents to the Departments uh for
review and submission by May one we're
doing something different this year uh
we've added another layer of review to
the process to help the administration
better prioritize major initiatives and
purchases it will also save Mr Barton
some time and building the budget so
we're we're looking at doing a lot of
this work on the front end with the
senior administr and Executives so what
we're doing is in addition to um in
addition to tying all uh new new
initiatives to the Strategic plan we're
also incorporating the use of Grants so
one of the things that we're doing is a
more strategic approach to the use of
Perkins funds to support instructional
CTE programs so uh this it's going to
take a bigger uh a broader conversation
at the leaders ship level but we're
we're confident that uh this will be a
much smoother process in in building the
budget also with the new process we are
incorporating um salary
increases at the beginning what that
actually looks like is will depend
ultimately on on where we where we where
we are partway through the process but
we heard you loud and clear with regard
to salaries uh for our employees and
while we are we are still um not where
we want to be I think the important
thing is that we make steps to get there
and uh so we'll we will do that as
opposed to waiting to the end to see if
we can afford to give an increase we are
incorporating that at the beginning the
exacts are still in the works though so
I just wanted to give you that update uh
again the submissions are due to Mr
Barton by May 1 uh
and U so you'll hear from him during the
Maine thank you ma' now you also have a
resolution
yes okay so as stated in your packet the
Community College Association of Texas
trustees is asking Texas Community
College governing boards to to
demonstrate excuse me their support for
the legislative priorities that I just
mentioned uh during my uh legislative
update uh this was something they came
up with and uh the majority of the
colleges have adopted the resolution and
really it's just a show of support uh so
I'm bringing that for you before you at
the request of that that
organization M have some election issues
election workers and judges for Coral U
County I will submit to you for approval
on the 25 I have three workers that will
help out in our Precinct
and then the um amendment of a order of
election uh just to be in line with uh
city of Colleen has a different uh the
seven to seven days are different than
Heights so I'm just going to include the
heights portion into the OR of election
and I'll bring back bring that uh
Amendment back to you on the 25th as
well thank you for your coordination and
those things and as long is
helping next item of vision is a uh item
that we will go into executive session
for uh the subject matter of each
executive session uh deliberation is as
follows for this one sofos managed
detection response service executive
session authorized by Texas government
code section
55108 n Del deliberation regarding
security devices or security Audits and
we will be joined uh by Mr gains in this
executive
session time
return from executive session at uh 133
mrm and the report is that we received a
uh explanation of the recommendation
that will be on the board uh document
for next
week two weeks two weeks not next week
spring break next week whatever whatever
the next I'll announce those when I turn
the page a
moment are there any recommendations for
topics for upcoming agenda items
uh just my prayer goes out to the
families that were affected yesterday
that's
so thank you very much speaking of the
next meeting Tuesday March the 25th at 1
pm for the board meeting and then a
workshop the April Workshop April the
15th a day that many of you have
deadlines to meet
you
we any
other let's journ please